---
title: Dec 1st, 2020
---

## To better understand what this means, let me briefly summarize the book “Knowledge and Power” by George Gilder:
##
> In primitive societies, people were self-sufficient. They gathered food, made clothing, and found shelter. Today, no one’s self-sufficient. They’re specialized. Everything you consume — you couldn’t produce it even if you tried. Your daily life depends on the cooperation of millions of others.
## Imagine making, say, cereal from scratch. You’d need to grow the grains yourself, which would mean making tools, which would mean mining metals, which would mean finding metals, which would mean building machinery… You get the idea.
## So how does the cereal we eat get created? Markets. And more specifically, the entrepreneurs within. Entrepreneurs constantly test new types of specialization, and markets determine which specialization prospers and which dies. This isn’t dictated by a central planner, but from the decentralized actions of many founders testing ideas in search of profit.
## But the notion that markets define technology — that demand creates supply — is a fallacy that leads to meddling in entrepreneurial activity. While government power can increase the money supply, it can't enhance the inherent value of that money. Value is an expression of entrepreneurial knowledge.
## So the key issue in economics is not aligning incentives with some putative public good, but aligning knowledge with power. Business investments have both a financial and an epistemic yield. Capital is not merely a flow of power, but also an accumulation of specific knowledge.
